Welcome again in this lecture.
We're going to be working on the face and ears of our animal.
Let's get started.
Animal facial hair generally tends to go away from the mouth, away from the nose, because you imagine
if they're running down the road chasing some sort of prey, then you want to make sure that your hair
is not going against the grain.
You want to make sure that their hair is nicely flowing backwards from the wind.
So I'm going to start off with a challenge for you, which is to give you animal some face fur, some
face fuzz.
And first of all, create a new vertex group for the face and for the ears.
You might want to do the ears separately.
I've decided to do my ears, my animal, the same as the face, but they're a little bit different.
The length of the hair is often not the same.
So you might want to do them separately.
And as you're doing your weight painting, make sure you carve out some notches for the eyes so that
you don't have hair growing right through the eyeballs and put eyeballs in later on.
And then to groom it and tweak it as you see fit.
So there's your challenge jumping.
Take that on RC Mackie when you're done.
Okay, step one, let's create a new particle system, so clicking over.
Plus and I will change it to here straight away decrease the size Tallassee point three, just as a
starting point, should probably rename this to be face.
Hey, we also need to create ourselves a new vertex group.
Click on Plus, I'll call this face hair.
Now back to my particle system.
And for the particle system we're working with.
Scroll down.
We want to find.
Down, down, down, down, down.
Vertex groups click on density changes to face hair.
It'll probably all disappear, which is fine, saying that you don't have any at all.
Now scroll back up, up, up.
I'm up again and find my original particle sitting, so I'm just gonna rename this in here as well.
So it's very clear this was the body hair.
And the next one along was the face hair, just so it's clear.
So the top one body hair.
I'm going to turn this off.
So it's off in the viewport.
And also when I render it so I can do some renders of the face here, as I go more quickly, click on
the face hair, jump over to object mode, find out where all white paint.
Make sure that I'm clicked on brush.
Increased the weight all the way up to one.
And just paint in the area that we're going to want the hair to appear.
Okay.
I haven't turned off this one.
I'm going to turn off my current particle system as well as over on the right there.
Click the little television that says, I don't wish to see you at the moment.
I just want to see where I'm painting my whites.
So let's go ahead and paint our whites.
Now, as soon back on our particle system so we can view it.
That's good.
I'm going to turn the number down to say for 200 at this point, you need a reasonable amount of depth
to it so that it's following all the contours and the interpretation of our children when we're doing
our interpolated.
It doesn't have to do too much interpretation.
Is that the right length?
I think that's going to be way too long.
So at this point, I will decrease the length probably down to about point to make sure we've got enough
segments.
Five year.
That's pretty good.
Okay.
And now we will go at our children interpolated.
I will put in probably 60 for mine.
Again, if your computer is really not enjoying having so many, then scale accordingly.
Okay.
Looking pretty spiffy.
I'm going to do some initial grooming.
Just a quick groom particle edit.
I'm going to select on the middle option here, which is the point mode is push everything to the side,
to the side side backwards as if we're running through a wind tunnel, wind tunnel, wind tunnel.
This instance on have it reasonably glued to the head with a little bit of puffery going on.
Sorry about the years just yet.
We will get to those when we get to those just looking at the face details and then to the tip so that
I can get a little bit more precision on the final direction of these things.
Catch some stragglers like that that are hanging around fairly decent.
I'm not going to worry about having it perfect on the face the face to get it looking really nice.
You need to have it fairly chunky and take a lot of time to groom it.
But I want to go a little bit quicker on this because I think by now you get the picture of what we're
doing here and you know how to groom these things.
But I will put a little bit more love into the front of the face here by adding how fine interpolate.
Yes, count one.
Good.
So just over to the side so I can be pushing them to the left.
These ones here, the left, these ones here up, probably might want to cut this one out from the nose.
I don't like them when they're sticking right on those areas that I don't think they should stick on.
Next thing I do is I didn't do this a moment ago.
But white paint, I'm going to dig out the eyeballs, so put my weight all the way down to zero and
carve a notch where I think the eyes will go.
It's okay if I go a little bit further on this.
I just want to make sure there's no hair right in the middle of it.
Okay, back to object mode to a test render at this point.
Okay.
Looking okay.
And one thing we've forgotten to do.
I've forgotten to do you and forgotten to do it is to change the material under render.
Change the material from body material to body hair.
I guess that should've just been called hair, not body hair.
Now do a test run to see how that looks.
Okay.
Very golden.
But it's in the right ballpark, some little bit of yuckiness around the eye there.
We still need to do these years.
Let's go and groom those now.
So back into particle edit going to trim the length of these a little bit.
So click on length.
Hold down shift.
Same over the other side.
I find you don't need to have them too, too small in length.
So long as they're brushed in the right direction it still looks okay.
But I will go and give a bit of an ear hair trim on the inside of the ears.
That's a you know, if you're getting old, if you have to trim your ear hairs.
Thankfully, I'm not at that stage just yet.
I did have a hairdresser a number of years ago.
When I'm starting to get, you know, still thought I wasn't that old.
They said, would you like me to trim your eyebrow hair?
I thought, well, that's very odd.
Is that a thing?
But that was a sign that I was getting old and maybe it was time for me to not go to hairdressers anymore.
If they're going to say such crazy things.
Okay, let's have a look at these.
Is.
Yeah, looking pretty messy, scraggly.
Not exactly what I want.
What I will do is jump in a particle, edit and go and add.
I'll turn off interpolate and as I add, I'll add some hairs right on the edge here.
Ristic straight out.
That'll give me a little bit more control over these scraggly edges that aren't looking as nice as they
used to look.
OK.
Done on them quite so long.
So with interpolate off, it's going to follow the face that we're putting it onto.
Let's jump into.
I'm just going to cut these actually.
Cut, cut, cut, cut, cut.
We'll see how that looks without doing any grooming it.
Okay.
Love it too long.
SEAL the cat in my picture here.
There's some of these hairs that do protrude forward on the ears.
So we don't need to have it groomed perfectly on these guys.
But I do need to trim them a little bit further.
Let's go.
Half of that size.
Just to give a bit of fuzz is what I'm going for here.
And I'm gonna be a little bit shaky as well, because I know my camera is gonna be down here.
I'm not going to worry about what's happening just over there, for example, but feel as if you've
got a different camera angle.
Well, you looking to do a pan around, rotate around, then you might want to make sure that each angle
is looking good.
Okay.
This hair here is creating all sorts of havoc.
You've probably discovered by now that just one lone hair can really mess things up.
When we're in in light with our children, all YoY.
There we go.
I think that's going to clean up this whole area.
I'll quickly do the other side now.
OK?
Not too bad.
I want to reduce the length on some of these hairs at the front.
Right now, turn both both particle systems back on to a test render.
It's far from perfect, my friend.
And that's okay.
I might come back and do a little bit of more finessing, find more of these bold patches and fix them
up, you know, fill them in.
But for now, I want to keep moving on and work on the whiskers.
So that's what we'll do next in the next video will add some whiskers to our animal.
If our animals have whiskers.
That is okay.
Great stuff.
I'll see you in the next lecture.